---
layout: post
category: Deep Learning
tag: DL
description: My first conference, Some thoughts and reflections. 
---
Over the last week of April, I had the opportunity to attend ICLR 2020. ICLR is International Conference on Learning Representations, created back in 2013 based on a model by Yann LeCun. It was its 8th edition in 2020 and for the first time ever was conducted virtually due to the coronavirus pandemic. ICLR has gained a reputation over the past few years over one of the top conference in deep learning and it has definitely been a conference I wanted to attend. I probably wouldn't have been able to attend, had it been conducted in Addis Adiba, Ethiopia because over the past couple of years deep learning has garnered a large amount of attention and reputation that conference tickets sell within seconds of opening and also that I'm far away from publishing work at ICLR. It's the first conference i've ever attended, and even though virtual might not count, it was a fulfilling experience and i learnt a lot.

I got to volunteer for the conference and since being the first of its kind, we were asked help to stress test various platforms present that made the conference possible like zoom, rocket chat, slideslive etc. Even though virtual, what i understood at the end of it as a volunteer, was there was a tremendous amount of work and effort that goes into making a conference possible. That this time it was trying to get the little things right, that made up the conversations, the discussions. It probably might have felt differently for people who've attended conference before, but for a first time attendee to me this felt like an amazing experience, a week filled with entering poster sessions, talking to various people about their research and learning a lot of new stuff. 


A thing that made the conference for me were the discussions i could've had 

Discussions i had with the various researchers, symbolic mathematics, neural bert NMT, researchers from all over the world, talking to people in my community in the poster sessions and knowing how they thought about problems and asking them how there research process was like and how they arrived on the particular idea, where they thought there ideas would go was exhilarating. 

Socials made another part of the conference, which was sort of new to me, we tried sempre town, we spoke over zoom, a social on creative ai, one on RL, NLP, where people spoke a wide variety of things. on one of this socials i chanced upon the opportunity to listen to richard sutton, for someone who's starting out in reinforcement learning studying and research and who follows his book, this was akin to a fanboy moment for me and seeing him talk about technical stuff and the way he thought about certain problems was simply put amazing. 

Conferences i've learnt are also a place where you can learn about new stuff, although there was this initial reluctance to drop in poster sessions that i did not know about, inherently because the poster sessions were equipped with videos which were paired with slides and also prompted to read the paper sometime after reading the paper it was sort of difficult to ask questions and the bar felt high, but i found that the authors were very welcoming and supporting of discussions and doubts. I learned a lot through the keynotes that were arranged throughout the week, Ruha benjamin's talk on why considering the various impact things had before the technology was even made and deployed and her statement, "Thinking about computational depth and without historical and sociologicl depth is superficial" will probably stay with me for a while. I learnt about Neurosymbolic AI in an expo talk, and it was an extremely interesting talk about how systems could be made more generalizable. The keynote on machine learning changing the future of healthcare has made me even more convinced about the little ways in which machine learning changes the various spheres of our life and that this could definitely be one ways in which we democratize health. I'm a lot more interested in interpretable, auto-ml systems after her talk and it was enlightening. Devi Parikh's talk on Vision and NLP was an amazing talk, nudging me into considering thinking about these problems and a solid recap of where the field has been for the past decade, and where it is going. I also got a few more opportunities to talk to her because of a few talks she arranged on creative ai. 

Although thoroughly exhausting spending around 10 hours a day attending poster sessions and talking to the various researchers over socials and poster sessions, this experience was quite exhilarating and inspiring to me. I look forward to going back to my own research filled with this excitement and working and building things. 

My notes for the conference can be found [here](https://github.com/Shashi456/Projects-and-courses/blob/master/ICLR2020.md). 
